Hello and welcome to the section where we're going to build a app called What's the weather.
And here's the app in a nutshell you should be able to type in any city in the world for example if
I want to know what's the weather like in.
Hi I can go ahead and type the sentence going to say hey there's moderate rain there's some mist if
I want to do any or any other sort of city let's say I want to figure out what it's like in Tokyo.
I can type in Tokyo Oh there's broken clouds there.
OK.
So this is sort of our end result.
What we want you to use is the open weather map API that we had done before in fact don't kill yourself
by rewriting all that API code you can use a lot of the code from the last project for this one.
Also you can notice I have this really cool background image here.
I got that from an splash dot com they've got a bunch of awesome images that you're free to use and
don't require you know pain for them or attribution so you can learn all about that here and go get
the images that you want and go see them.
So anyways with that you should be able to get this app completed on your own.
Of course if you'd like to see how I did it you can watch with me through the rest of the lecture.
Best of luck.
All right.
Let's go ahead and get started here we're going to make a new androids to your project and we're going
to call this.
What's the weather.
And I didn't put out an apostrophe in here.
Any type of punctuation that you have with your Android project name it can really affect the packages
and can get nasty so spaces are OK but anything outside of that punctuation wise I'd really recommend
against.
So we'll go ahead and get this fired up here.
Now the big thing is as you saw we need to get some sort of background image here for when we're working
on the app.
I mean we don't have to.
But I think it just makes it look that much better so you kind of want to go find a nice picture that
you think somehow relates to weather.
So all sorts of different options here really you just got to go until you find the one you like.
This one looks cool to me.
I think it looks really awesome.
That's going to be totally up to you about which one you want to get.
But go ahead download whatever image you'd like.
We got that one coming down and here it is opening up.
So I'm going to go ahead and export this to my desktop and I'm just going to call it background like
that and we'll go ahead and save that.
And one thing I should note here that this is probably going to be a really really big image that we
have on the desktop.
In fact look at this one seven point nine megabytes That's more than we need.
So on a Mac if you want to change how this looks you can go ahead and go to.
Let's see here it is tools just size and you can say right now this is an inch as I want this to be
in pixels you know 5000 pixels something more like 500 is probably what we need.
I mean up to you about how you want to handle that but doing something like that.
And if we save that that's going to make things a lot better.
Let's see.
Oh yeah that's 97 kilobytes now can just be a little bit of overkill there.
So now that our project is open let's go to our marble directory here and we're going to Right-Click
say reveal in Finder and we want to be able to add in an image there so we're going to go to our desktop.
Copy this we'll go back and inside of drawable go ahead and paste that there.
Excellent.
And make sure this gets into our project.
All right click.
It's a synchronized selected files and we should see all our background image coming through there.
Let's go ahead and open this up one more time and find her somehow.
And now that's B-24 here.
OK so I paste that into the wrong folder.
So now if you right click and say synchronize get up there goes the background and we can go check that
out.
Excellent.
OK.
So with this let's go ahead and get the style of the app right first.
So go over here to our SML file.
And essentially the first thing that we want to do is we want to have the image view that fills up the
entire screen.
So that's where we're going to operate first.
Let's go ahead and select this text for you and we'll just delete that.
And we want to go find ourself an image you bring that out here and we want this to be filled up with
background so it's awesome that it's an option here to get us started.
We'll just go ahead and select that.
Now with this image view we want to make sure that this is filling up the entire screen so we're just
going to add all the constraints here and just make sure that they are all zero.
So I'm going to add zero to that one.
And when we do that that fills up the whole screen.
Now we do want to kind of work here with the scale type there's different options that you can choose
like fit X Y for example there's also fit center.
There's just straight up Center which kind of zooms it in a little bit.
I believe that center crop is usually the best that kind of crops and it make sure that everything's
filled.
So to me this looks pretty good.
But you can totally decide how you want that to look.
So with that we want to go ahead and add now a text view on site of here so we can ask the user you
know what the weather is.
So we're going to go ahead and drag one out here and with this new text for you.
Let's go ahead and right click and say we want you to be centered horizontally.
And also we want you to be a certain space from the top will just kind of use what we have for now.
And we've completely lost the text here.
Let's see.
I think it's gone down.
We need we need this to go inside of the image you like or on top of it.
But we need it to reference the top of the screen there so we're going to go ahead and delete what we
had before and let's go ahead and say we want this for the time being just right now we're going to
say Center horizontally and also center vertically so you kind of get us at least in the conversation
then with this we want to go ahead and add something to the top here and we want this to be at the top
of the screen so there we go.
We've got that connected.
Let's go ahead and change that.
I don't know maybe something like 20 will change that.
Oh let's get rid of the bottom one I think that's going to help us.
There we go.
So now we're in the middle.
Now we have to go ahead and do some work with this.
So the first thing is we've got to fix the text color so that we can actually read it.
So here we select our options we want to do background light or something that's white ish and then
text size.
Really want to bump this up maybe something like 40 here and the message that we're trying to get across
is we want to say Enter Scott my cap locks on.
Enter a city.
So this is basically telling user hey you know go ahead and pick a city that you want to go see the
weather for.
So the next thing that we need to add here is an added text so here it's called plain text if we just
go ahead drag one of these out.
I'm going to make it a little bit below what we have here.
So with this let's go ahead and connect it up to the top and look at that it grabs next to the text
for you that's great.
Let's make sure that this thing is centered in its parent.
Awesome.
Now we want to go ahead and change the text color on this one so we can actually read what's going on
here so I'll say text color.
Switch it to that nice background light.
Excellent.
So with that we go ahead and switch back to this.
We can go ahead and get rid of that we don't want anything in there for right now.
Then we want to add a button below that so let's go ahead and grab a button.
We're going to bring that just right below when we want this guy right click here to be centered and
then we also want to have the top constraint there although I don't think that was what we were hoping
for.
You go ahead and do that.
Well let's put the button back.
And so this button the plus button there.
There we go.
And right click say center in the parent and then we're going to change this button to say what's the
weather.
So click here we'll ask what's whether I forget that it automatically capitalized for you there.
So that's good.
And the last thing that we just need is a text view that essentially is going to fill up the rest of
the screen and this is where we can list out the information so we'll go ahead and grab a text view
lay beneath here.
And again I want to have some connection to the top and look that connected right there.
We want one to the bottom.
That wasn't what we were hoping for.
Let's see if we can connect that down there to the bottom and we're going to say that you should go
all the way there.
Nice.
And then we'll do our left and our right here and we want to go ahead and just say eight on the left
and the right.
And again we want that to actually go to the edge of everything.
So if we do this I'm not quite sure why that's going to heads there.
Let's go ahead and try that one time.
No that wasn't what we were looking for.
Try stretching that to the edge.
There we go.
Finally we've got that to take up the space.
So with this one we want to change a couple of things so the big one is we want the text color to be
that nice white color so we'll go ahead and select that.
The other thing that we want is we want it to be bigger.
So let's go and see what 20 looks like.
Now that might be big enough you want to be careful that you don't go too big because if you do do that
then you're going to make it so that you can't read what's going on there.
But we don't need any text in there for right now we'll fill that up with information later.
So just kind of empty that.
OK.
So here's a really nice starting place for our app.
We'll go ahead and get this run in on the simulator so we can just make sure that visually it looks
like what we want but then this gives us the opportunity to move on to our next step.
OK.
And we have got a couple of issues here it's worried about the background.
So the air that we were having has to do with the background image that we have.
So if we go to our project here and we right click this background image we just need to change the
name of this.
So if we go to refactor and then rename we can change this to background pic.
I recommend just doing all lower case letters something like background pic and then hit refactor.
So that should work probably automatically for you because I've done this before.
I have to go down and hit do Refractories kind of confirm that that's what I want.
But anyways that will get that for you so we'll close that out and open and run this app OK and we'll
make sure that the design and everything is looking great here.
So looks like that finish.
Let's see it here.
Boom.
Yeah that's looking really good if we type out some stuff.
Get that nice white text that's looking really good.
OK.
So the next step for us is we just got to make it so that when we hit that button we can actually go
get some information and you'll be happy to know that we're not going to rewrite all this code from
scratch we're actually just going to use our code from our last project because that would be a little
bit insane to go keep writing the same code over and over.
So let's open up our last project the sun demo here and well we'll just do this in a new window.
We just need to copy this bit and then we'll bring it back.
So we just want to go ahead and take all the code from here and basically bring it into our other project
right because this is all the code we needed to both connect with the API download that information
and then process through it.
Right we did all this Jaison on stuff to get there.
So we should just reuse the code that we already have.
So go ahead and just select the code that you need here.
And I come all the way down here we go.
Awesome.
So copy that and then we need to bring it into our current project.
And I'm just going to put it below this on create and we get this nice import screen saying hey we're
going to import all this stuff and say OK now it's good.
Then we also need to go grab one more bit with this and that's you know when we create the download
task and we execute for that specific you're also let me go ahead and copy all this.
I can't get to the end of that long string there so I'm just going to copy all this.
I'll have to delete that curly bracket.
But once I have this come through for the time bein I'll just go ahead and paste this in the concreate
and then we should have all the code that we need in order to make this happen.
Now we want to make it so that when we hit this button that we can go get this code from the API so
let's set a name for the unclick maybe let's just go ahead and call this whether or no.
Let's go ahead let's call this get weather.
So we'll say get weather.
All right then with this we'll come back.
We'll have to write the appropriate function here.
Function method.
So public voyde get weather and we'll go ahead and do our curly brackets and we just want to take this
code from here and see if I can't scroll through and get all of this.
So we'll cut this or another I guess copy and paste so I have to delete this since I didn't cut and
there now it will go get that code.
When the button is pressed.
OK.
So we've got that in our Get whether things are looking pretty good.
We want to test and make sure that all this code is working right.
That it comes down and it's logging out some information here on this on post execute.
So with this let's go ahead and give this a run on the emulator and we'll see where it takes us.
See an app opens up we're hoping there we go.
OK so once we're here I'll go ahead and hit this button and oh that's not we we're expecting Let's go
see what we got.
Let's see.
OK.
So with our get weather function we forgot to pass in the view parameter.
So that's where it's safe and I can't find that things we need to say capital view hit enter on that
is our view parameter.
One other thing that we need to fix that.
It didn't show us but I know it is going to be an issue we didn't ask for Internet permission so let's
go on our Android manifest.
We're going to ask for users permission for the Internet and Android studio just knows that that's what
we want.
It's always at the top of the list there.
But we'll go ahead and hit run there.
So fixing both of those things we shouldn't run into any issues now.
But I guess we'll see what comes up now in the logs.
Thanks Joe it's like we're coming up here in the emulator let's hit the button and when we click that
look at that we get the drizzle light intensity drizzle good this mean our code is actually working
and we can go get the weather.
So the next step for us is that we want to make it so that we could enter some city like shaking high
for example.
And when we hit this button I'll actually go get the weather for Shanghai rather than just for London.
So the way to do this is first we have to get the information from this edit text so let's go back to
our visual side of stuff here and we'll select this text we've got to give it a proper name and we could
probably just leave it at that text because it's going to be the one and only in the project but we'll
go ahead and define it up here say edit texts has a name at it.
Text you know pretty straightforward and then or on Create this is where we'll say edit Texes equal
to find view by id capital our ID on that text.
Awesome.
So now that we have access to that that means that we can then go through and actually grab the piece
of information from there.
So here inside of our code before we do the download task and everything we're first going to get access
to that edit text all say edit text and then to get to it's information we're going to say Dot get text
and that gives us this thing called an editor editable and to get to the actual string we're gonna have
to say to string in order to grab that.
So basically what we want to do is take whatever string comes from the edit text and actually put it
right here on the your L instead of saying London UK.
So we'll go ahead and cut this.
And then where it says London U.K. And you can see there's like an app or stamp after that we're going
to delete.
London UK will do a double quote double quote so we can separate the two here and then we'll say.
Plus we're going to put in that string and then plus and we'll put in that piece so basically we're
saying all right do this part of the you are ill.
We're going to add in whatever the user has entered and then we're going to keep this app I.D. thing.
This helps so that we don't have to go get an API.
I think this is just the sample one that they provide.
And speaking of samples we've got to get rid of the samples open weather map in order for this to work.
So it just should be open whether mapped out or and if you do run into any issues with this now coming
through you might just have to go get an API.
But I think whatever you had clicked on from the documentation that had some sort of idea might not
be the exact same as this one is very likely it's different so I would get that from the web site but
this should work for us.
So let's go ahead and give this a try.
So hit run here
and yeah basically the idea is that we'll type in a city name and it should go get it for us and the
thing that's you know when we have all this try catch stuff.
This is really important is we're letting the user directly influence what's going to go inside of this
or else so if they just put all sorts of crazy stuff in here you know it would just crash everything.
So that's where the try catch is really important to handle that information.
So let's go ahead and try Shanghai.
Let's get our log cat friend up and run in here and say what's the weather and look at that.
It came through.
It's got all the information here and it's got a couple of things so it's got rain and it's got mist
so I said all these things I guess it's really only got two and it's printing those things out.
But you know that was cool because it was different from remember when we did the London weather it
only showed one thing so that means we're definitely connecting with something else and if we wanted
to try just for fun here let's go ahead and put.
Just go ahead and type in London and we'll say what's the weather.
Let's scroll down here and look at that just clouds.
Overclass over cast clouds.
And this is great.
We're at a great point in our app.
So rather than just have our information show here inside of log cat.
We should actually have it show up in that text view that we had created.
So let's go back to our activity main and let's get the ID for you here and rather than text you to
let's give it a more proper name like result.
Textfield I think that's probably a good name for that.
So we'll go ahead and go back here we first have to define that so we're going to say text view result
text view case.
We'll go ahead and define that.
And then here on our create is where we want to finally set this up so.
So I'll text you as we could to find view by ID or not ID.
The result
is not auto completing.
For me there.
Result.
Text view and yet you are not ID.
You don't should be result textfield Let's see what happens to you that go ahead and try and run the
app
maybe Android Stew's is freaking out on me although usually it's pretty good about it only you know
if it's showing red that something really is wrong.
Let's see now.
Looks like you just need a little push forward there in order to run it.
So with that let's go ahead and we are going to make sure that we can now fill in the proper information
when someone has you know click the button.
They want that information that will show the right thing.
So let me go ahead and move this down.
And so here inside of this on post execute remember we had talked about this would be inappropriate
place to actually update UI information here inside of the background.
Not really but here that we could do that.
So what we're going to do here is the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to make a new
string called message.
So when you make a string called message set that equal to an empty string.
And ultimately what we want to do with this message string is after this for loop here we first want
to check and see if the message is not equals to an empty string.
Well I guess we want to do the opposite of that so go ahead and put an exclamation in front of that
song say as long as it's not equal to an empty string.
Then we want to take our result text few and say set text.
And this is where we'll pass in the message.
OK.
So it's basically saying do that and then in this for loop this is where we want to fill in the message
string with you know the main in the description.
So the way that we can handle this is we can go about and create two new strings.
One of them's gonna have a string called Main.
And we're also going to have a string named description.
KING And it's just going to handle the two pieces that we had before so the first one for the main.
Well just go ahead and copy this piece of code and say Main is equal to this and we'll have description
equal to this or basically saying go grab that Jaison information put it inside of these strings we'll
get rid of our logs we don't really want to log it we want to show it to the user.
And once we have these two we'll go ahead and do a if statement just make sure that we have information
inside of here.
So will say mean dot equals and we'll just make sure it's not equal to this we'll go ahead and do an
exclamation point there and we'll say that we also want to make sure that we have information so we'll
do our Ampere's stamp to confirm that this is the case as well.
I'll say exclamation point description dot equals and we'll go ahead and put an empty string and then
allow us then to say OK as long as these things are not empty then we can go and say all right message
you are plus equals whatever is inside of main plus a colon space.
I got to put this in quotes Colon's space and then we're going to add the description.
OK so now that we got that in place moment of truth here let's go ahead and test this out on our app.
We still get this red squiggly.
I hope that's just Android studio being weird again.
You can see that up there.
And let's see.
This time I forgot a semi-colon so that was a real issue.
Hopefully that's the end of Android studio acting up for now.
So let's go ahead and test this woo.
I'm excited.
This should be cool to see if this works so let's try first London.
It was our first example.
What's the weather.
Light rain.
OK let's see what it's like in Paris.
Clear sky.
Let's see what it's like in Tokyo.
Broken clouds.
And let's see what it's like in the Shanghai.
We've got moderate rain.
And we also have missed.
Now you'll notice we had two things in this situation with Shanghai but they all showed on the same
thing and it just kind of made it hard to read.
So something that we do want to add here we also want to add a string at the end here that says backslash
are backslash and and that will create a new line for us.
So let's just go ahead run this one more time make sure that this is working exactly like we'd like.
So here comes our app Let's try that Shanghai again it seems to be the only city with two pieces of
information and look at that we've got rain and mist showing up.
Excellent.
Now there's one issue that I'd like to talk about and that's that we haven't really seen this when we're
typing out a city name.
We've just been using our keyboard.
But when someone's using this on an actual Android device they are going to be a virtual keyboard.
So if you double click here in the edit text you'll see that pop up.
And you know right now the way that our apps showing up our phone is big enough and there's not enough
text here that this doesn't cover that but sometimes it's the case that does happen at this keyboard
is covering.
Now the Android users do have the option to just hit this button that's going to get rid of the keyboard
and that's fine.
But it's kind of a bad user experience for people when they're using the app if this is covering text
and maybe they don't know about it we should just make it so when someone hits the button that we can
get rid of the keyboard and let me show you how we can do that.
So we're going to go to our Get weather function method here.
And this is where we're going to write some code to say hey you know what if someone has hit the button
we're going to go get the weather but we're also going to move down the keyboard.
So what we'll do inside of here is we need to get something called an input method manager.
So when I say input method manager and we'll just hit enter on that.
So we've got our input method manager that we'll just call manager and we're going to set this equal
to get system service and we want capital context dot and we'll do capital input method.
Service can go ahead and semi-colon that.
And let's see we've got to go ahead and cast this to say that this is going to be of type input method
manager.
All right.
Next thing that we need here is we need to take this manager and we're going to say OK go ahead and
hide the soft input from window and we don't want the one that says method just had input from window
and then we're going to do inside of here is we're going to get to our edit text and say Dot get window
token and we'll go ahead.
We don't need any flags here so just provide zero there and we'll do a semi-colon.
So this should make it so that when we hit that you know find whether a button is automatically going
to hide the software keyboard there which is exactly what we're looking for.
OK.
So let's go ahead and try this.
I'm going to open up software keyboard again.
It's not going to cover what we need but just in case and you know people have all different sides of
Android phones.
But let's go ahead to hit this button and look at that it pops it down.
That's an awesome user experience.
Looks great.
OK.
So now that we've got that in place I want to talk about what happens if someone puts in some bad information.
So what if someone types out like your mom and tries to find the weather.
Well because we have all those try catches.
Nothing really happens.
We were able to handle that appropriately.
But the user has no way of knowing that something went wrong.
More than just you know typing in just random jibberish.
Of course that's not going to do something.
But also if we say a city like San Francisco and we say what's the weather.
No.
Well it was able to do that.
I was going to say sometimes with spaces there's going to be issues with that.
Let's go ahead and try.
Salt Lake City.
What's the weather there.
So it is handling spaces fine.
I do want to show you what I consider to be some more safe code to make sure this happens.
But let's deal with the first thing where if someone just types out random gibberish and says What's
the weather we should probably alert the user to know that hey something's wrong here we couldn't get
the weather for you.
So let's go down to first here in our try catch.
For one we're just inside of the you know h l connection trying to get download the appropriate data.
All that stuff so what we're going to do inside of here is we're going to make a toast.
So I want to say toast make text and inside of here when I do get application context comma or string
that will provide a say could not find whether frowny face.
And then after that or say how long I want there to be that I'll say toast.
Well it's too short.
I like to keep things short.
So this is just a little message that we want to show up and we want to show this in a couple of places.
So I'm actually going to copy this and just move down through the code right.
So if for example we had gotten an air here where we want to go ahead and do a toast if we were unable
to show a message here we'd want to add an else statement and say hey something went wrong go ahead
and pass there.
So now we have some code there that will sort of save us if something has gone wrong.
Right.
And we need to let the user know about it.
So the one other part that I wanted to show you here that I think just makes our code a little bit safer
is and you can see this with this or else if we go back let's go grab this code for getting the weather
come on Android studio.
Let me kids at the end of this thing I'll copy that.
I'll paste this in and rather than the two string.
Right.
This is where I'm going to put something like
London
can so that's showing the appropriate information for London.
But you know let's say for example we did a two part name like San Francis and says go I hope I'm all
in that right.
And Francisco Anyways if I go ahead and search that it looks like I've given the wrong name.
In fact let me just do a better named one that I can spell.
Salt Lake City.
There we go.
You can see we get the appropriate information but that's because Safari here is automatically said
hey wherever there's a space we're going to do a percent 20.
And in your l terms of percent 20 is the same thing as a space.
And so it seems like our code is automatically handling that because we put in Salt Lake City and we're
getting the appropriate information.
But just to be safe if you ever seen that that's not happening this is how you can turn spaces into
like that percent 20 for example.
So what you can do is make a new string and we're going to call this uncoated city name and we're going
to set this equal to your cell encoder dot in code and we're going to go ahead and pass it first.
This you know edit texts get text to string blah blah all that stuff.
So go ahead and pass that there and then we're going to say how it is that we want this encoded so excite
capital UTF Dash 8.
And this says you should encode this in the appropriate way so that we can go ahead and convert this
to how we need.
So we are getting an error here because this is looking for a try catch to do all of this because it's
saying hey this could be risky by the way this encoded city name this is what we want to paste right
there.
So let's go ahead and do a try curly brackets and all doing anyone there.
Go ahead and catch all the exceptions and if there is an exception of course want to print that out.
But then also we want to do what we've been doing.
We want to print out a little toast here to say hey you know something went wrong we weren't able to
get the weather.
All right.
So let's go ahead now that we've got that information.
Let's run the sap and make sure it's exactly what we're hoping for.
So what's your theory.
I'm actually very impressed that it was able to handle this.
My guess is that this automatic encoding is probably happening right here when we say you know turn
this string your cell into an actual Yoro object.
But again this is maybe a little bit safer way to handle that.
So let's try again something like Salt Lake City.
Hit enter there and look at that.
That works.
Let's try entering random jibberish one time say what's the weather and we're not getting back
any text that says that we were not able to get the weather.
So let's go ahead and see what's going on there.
So I was looking at the logs and we were getting proper Jaison exceptions but the toasters weren't showing
up and I thought that's cause I didn't say Dot show at the end.
I always forget to do that with the toes.
I'm going to go ahead and copy this little blurb for all of our toes messages.
Boom there's another one and I think we just have one last left.
Yes let's put that up there.
And now let's run the app and we will try passing it some good old jibberish because we want to see
that stink and TOSed message pop up.
So here this will be a fun one.
What if we don't put anything inside of here and say what's the weather like that.
Could not find whether I do jibberish.
What's the weather can do it.
But I'd try something like Tokyo bam broken clouds and let's try and Francisco.
What's the weather for that.
Ooh we got three things from San Francisco that's pretty cool.
OK.
So hopefully you enjoyed creating this app at least visually.
I love the look of this on that cool image in the background and having the white text and stuff.
I thought that looked really nice.
And you know I just loved how simple this was yet because we're using someone else's API.
It's insane that we can get the weather for anywhere in the entire world and all we did was he showed
you know if there's going to be rain or sunshine drizzle whatever it is.
Right.
But we could have grabbed the temperature.
I'm sure there's other API that we can get forecast from on that open weather like.
All sorts of stuff.
So really fun lecture here I've got one more lecture just to sort of wrap everything up and then we
are done with this section.